Most of the code is made available under the GNU General Public
License, including R-INLA, the inla-program and GMRFLib. Some external
libraries has different licenses as described below.




TAUCS library:

TAUCS Version 2.0, November 29, 2001. Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003
by Sivan Toledo, Tel-Aviv Univesity, stoledo@tau.ac.il. All Rights
Reserved.

TAUCS License:

Your use or distribution of TAUCS or any derivative code implies that
you agree to this License.

THIS MATERIAL IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITH ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED. ANY USE IS AT YOUR OWN RISK.

Permission is hereby granted to use or copy this program, provided
that the Copyright, this License, and the Availability of the original
version is retained on all copies. User documentation of any code that
uses this code or any derivative code must cite the Copyright, this
License, the Availability note, and "Used by permission." If this code
or any derivative code is accessible from within MATLAB, then typing
"help taucs" must cite the Copyright, and "type taucs" must also cite
this License and the Availability note. Permission to modify the code
and to distribute modified code is granted, provided the Copyright,
this License, and the Availability note are retained, and a notice
that the code was modified is included. This software is provided to
you free of charge.



METIS library:

Can I distribute METIS with my application?

Our policy regarding the distribution of METIS with third-party
applications is as follows:

Non-commercial applications
    METIS can be freely distributed provided that:

        * A reference to the following paper is included: “A Fast and
        * Highly Quality Multilevel Scheme for Partitioning Irregular
        * Graphs”. George Karypis and Vipin Kumar. SIAM Journal on
        * Scientific Computing, Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 359—392, 1999.
        * The original documentation (PDF file of the manual) and
        * copyright notice is included.

Commercial applications
    METIS can be freely distributed provided that:

        * A reference to the following paper is included: “A Fast and
        * Highly Quality Multilevel Scheme for Partitioning Irregular
        * Graphs”. George Karypis and Vipin Kumar. SIAM Journal on
        * Scientific Computing, Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 359—392, 1999.
        * The original documentation (PDF file of the manual) and
        * copyright notice is included.  METIS is a relatively small
        * portion of the overall application.

In either case, permission to distribute/include METIS with your
application must be obtained by sending email to metis@cs.umn.edu.



hash.c in GMRFLib:

Copyright (c) 2002-2004, Jean-Sebastien Roy (js@jeannot.org)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

